---
heading: Release of our new blog!
author: Brad Paugh
posted: '2022-11-18'
---
<!-- Note the date must be in this format YYYY-M-D and wrapped in single quotes -->

<BlogPost :author="$frontmatter.author" :posted="parse($frontmatter.posted, 'y-M-d', new Date())" :heading="$frontmatter.heading">

Welcome to the first post of our "What's New?" blogging section. Here you can find detailed info about updates we have recently released and what we are planning on doing the future!

Here are some things you may read about in this blog:

- Breaking changes and potential migration guides
- New components
- Updates to existing components
- Bug fixes
- Updates to the documentation site
- Changes to existing process related to Dialtone
- Reminders on process and best practices

This blog is pretty barebones to start but we'll be updating it with new features and visual updates. Below are some recent updates to Dialtone.

## Icons

We just released an entirely new set of icons for Dialtone 7. This comes along with a new [Dialtone Icon Component](http://dialpad.design/components/icon.html) and [Dialtone Vue Icon Component](https://vue.dialpad.design/?path=/story/components-icon--default) which makes using Dialtone icons easier than it ever has been in the past. Please see the [migration guide](https://github.com/dialpad/dialtone/blob/staging/migration_guide/MIGRATION_GUIDE.md#icons) for the new icons if you are looking to update your old Dialtone 6 icons to the new ones. The Dialtone 6 icons will be around for a while longer but they will be going away after all migrations are complete. To use the new icons please use the new [Dialtone Vue Icon Component](https://vue.dialpad.design/?path=/story/components-icon--default) over the pure CSS version. The CSS version should only be used where you can't use Vue (ex: backbone). We will continue to add features into the icon documentation page such as search and improved previewing options.

## Overview pages

Our lead designer Francis has been working hard on new overview pages for each section of the site! I'm happy to say they've now been released and you can check them out by simply navigating to the top level links in the header (Design, Components, Utilities, Guides).

## Small size toggle

We've added a small size option to the toggle component which you can see here:

[Small Toggle](https://vue.dialpad.design/?path=/story/components-toggle--default&args=size:sm)

## Presence component

We've added a component to display user presence into Dialtone. The next step for this is to integrate it into avatar, which is currently being worked on and coming very soon.

[Presence](https://vue.dialpad.design/?path=/story/components-presence--default)

## New member

Please welcome Ignacio 'Nacho' Ropolo to the design system team. He has joined us from Argentina as a developer and is very excited to get started!

That's all for now have a fantastic weekend! :tada: :wave:
</BlogPost>

<script setup>
import BlogPost from '@baseComponents/BlogPost.vue';
import { parse } from 'date-fns';
</script>
