---
heading: Release of our new blog!
author: Brad Paugh
posted: 2022-11-7
prev:
  text: Back to what's new
  link: /about/whats_new/
---
<!-- Note the date must be in this format YYYY-M-D -->

<ClientOnly>
<BlogPost :author="$frontmatter.author" :posted="parse($frontmatter.posted, 'y-M-d', new Date())" :heading="$frontmatter.heading">

Welcome to the first post of our "What's New?" blogging section. Here you can find detailed info about updates we have recently released and what we are planning on doing the future!

Here are some things you may read about in this blog:

- Breaking changes and potential migration guides
- New components
- Updates to existing components
- Bug fixes
- Updates to the documentation site
- Changes to existing process related to Dialtone
- Reminders on process and best practices

This blog is pretty barebones to start but we'll be updating it with new features and visual updates. Below are some of the recent updates to Dialtone.

## Icons

We just released an entirely new set of icons for Dialtone 7. This comes along with a new [Dialtone Icon Component](http://dialpad.design/components/icon.html) and [Dialtone Vue Icon Component](https://vue.dialpad.design/?path=/story/components-icon--default) which makes using Dialtone icons easier than it ever has been in the past. Please see the [migration guide](https://github.com/dialpad/dialtone/blob/staging/migration_guide/MIGRATION_GUIDE.md#icons) for the new icons if you are looking to update your old Dialtone 6 icons to the new ones. The Dialtone 6 icons will be around for a while longer but they will be going away eventually. To use the new icons please use the new [Dialtone Vue Icon Component](https://vue.dialpad.design/?path=/story/components-icon--default) over the pure CSS version. The CSS version should only be used where you can't use Vue (ex: backbone). We will continue to add features into the icon documentation page such as search and improved previewing options.

## Component Overview Page

Dialtone has been missing a component overview landing page for quite some time. I'm happy to say it's finally been released and you can check it out here:

[Components Page](https://dialpad.design/components/)
</BlogPost>
</ClientOnly>

<script setup>
import BlogPost from '@baseComponents/BlogPost.vue';
import { parse } from 'date-fns';
</script>
